Have you ever made a bad decision?
Maybe a better question would be,
do you remember the last bad decision that you made?
Most of our decisions don't impact our lives greatly.
The young brother mentioned to me some time ago,
when he looked at my tie,
you have some work to do, Brother Hayet.
Well, maybe that was a bad decision.
But some decisions impact our sacred service
and our relationship with Jehovah.
And that's highlighted in today's text.
When viewed in their context,
we quickly discern that the words of today's text
were not given as commendation,
or even as reassurance.
But we're given in the context of corrective counsel.
Now, who was being counseled?
King Asa, the great, great grandson of King David,
the third king of the kingdom of Judah.
He ruled for 41 years,
and he has the distinction of being known
as one of the faithful kings of Judah.
So with that in mind, the question arises,
why would a faithful king need corrective counsel?
To answer the question, let's turn in our Bibles
to 2 Chronicles chapter 167.
At that time, Haneinai, the seer,
came to King Asa of Judah and said to him,
because you relied on the king of Syria
and did not rely on Jehovah your God.
So there was the bottom line, the root of the problem.
The army of the king of Syria has escaped out of your hand.
And then Haneinai reminds Asa of an earlier event.
He asks, were not the Ethiopians and the Libyans
a very great army with many chariots and horsemen?
But because you relied on Jehovah,
he gave them into your hand.
Well, sometime earlier, Asa and the nation of Judah
were confronted by Zira, the Ethiopian,
and one million troops.
How did Asa handle that crisis?
Well, he humbly prayed to Jehovah
and put himself in the nation in Jehovah's hands,
and Jehovah was favorably impressed with that approach
and he gave Judah the victory.
Now, in this case, when King Ben Hadad came against Judah,
rather than relying on Jehovah,
Asa bribed Ben Hadad.
So it was Beasha who came from Israel.
He bribed King Ben Hadad
and it seemed to be successful.
Ben Hadad came against Beasha.
Beasha withdrew from Judah.
All was well.
Except that Jehovah wasn't pleased.
Asa left Jehovah out of the equation.
So with that in mind, in verse nine,
we have the council, don't we?
For the eyes of Jehovah are roving about
through all the earth to show his strength
in behalf of those whose heart is complete toward him.
You have acted foolishly in this matter.
From now on, there will be wars against you.
So there was the reminder and the council.
Now, why, when confronted with one million,
did Asa depend on Jehovah?
But when confronted by King Beasha of Israel,
he depended on himself.
Isn't it true that when we face a situation,
a problem, a decision must be made?
But the situation is so much bigger than we are.
We turn to Jehovah and we beg for his help
for solace and comfort and direction.
It may be a catastrophic illness that we know
isn't going to be resolved in this system.
Could be the death of someone close to us,
or perhaps a family member, or a close friend
is disfellowship.
We have no control over the situation,
and we lean on Jehovah.
But other decisions may seem to be more within our grasp,
for example, the selection of a marriage made,
the choice of a career.
Maybe we came to work here and to help with construction.
We might have sold our home, cut our ties,
and now a project is nearing completion,
and we have to make decisions.
Will we go back where we came from?
We weren't pioneering before we came,
but now after spending some time here at Bethel,
we're thinking about spiritual goals.
Can we pioneer?
Should we stay in this country?
Is it possible we could move to another country?
If we're not careful as we make these decisions,
we could leave Jehovah out of the equation.
So here's a question.
How do we include Jehovah in the equation?
Well, there are three things that we can do.
The first is research.
What does Jehovah tell us in his word
that has application to the situation we're facing?
What has the faithful and discreet slave told us in the publications?
Has there been an article, some direction,
that would be helpful to us?
A second ingredient is that of prayer,
talking with Jehovah about the decision that we're making.
And keeping in mind that we don't expect Jehovah
to do our thinking for us,
but he will help us and direct us
so that we can make a good decision.
And finally, here in the Bethel setting,
and in the congregations we have a wealth of experienced,
faithful brothers and sisters who would be more than happy
to help us benefit from their experience in life.
So if we do these three things,
our research, prayer, and talking with experienced,
faithful ones, then we can make a good decision.
Now, here's the question, what is a good decision?
Wouldn't you agree that ultimately a good decision
is one that Jehovah can bless?
And often we have a number of options
and it's not necessarily a question
of making a wrong or right decision,
but what decision, what can we do
that will enhance our relationship with Jehovah
and give him something to bless?
Now, there's one other point in the account
that can be very encouraging to us.
If you look back at 2 Chronicles 15,
and the B portion of verse 17,
it says, nevertheless,
Aces, heart, was complete all his life.
That's interesting, isn't it?
Now, in our text for today,
we're told that Jehovah is searching for those
whose heart is complete toward him.
Ultimately, Jehovah viewed Aces
as one whose heart was complete.
It's comforting to know that Jehovah
did not measure the man
because of one faulty decision.
He looked at the whole picture
and evidently Aces good qualities
and his zeal for pure worship outweighed
the bad decision that he made in this case.
So when we make bad decisions
and we will from time to time,
then we take comfort in knowing
that Jehovah will continue to work with us.
And ultimately, what we want
is for Jehovah to look at each of us
and to say his or her heart
is complete with me.